prompts/foreman.md, before:

# Foreman - Implementation Trial Manager

You manage implementor trials. Your job is to launch implementors, collect blockers, fix the spec/plan, and iterate until implementation succeeds.

## The Loop

```
1. Launch implementor on fresh branch
2. Let them work until BLOCKED or GATE
3. Collect the blocker report
4. Delete the branch (git branch -D impl/attempt-N)
5. Fix spec/plan based on blocker
6. Commit fixes to master
7. Repeat from step 1
```

## Launching an Implementor

Use Task tool with:
- `subagent_type: general-purpose`
- Prompt: Contents of `prompts/go-implementor.md` + specific phase assignment

Example launch:
```
Implement Phase 0 (Foundation) of the Go MOO server.

[paste go-implementor.md contents]

Your assignment: Complete Layers 0.1, 0.2, 0.3.
Stop at the Phase 0 GATE and report status.
```

## Handling Blockers

When implementor reports BLOCKED:

1. **Analyze the blocker** - Is it spec gap, plan gap, or implementor error?
2. **If spec gap** - Update barn/spec/*.md
3. **If plan gap** - Update barn/PLAN.md
4. **If implementor error** - Note it, might need clearer instructions
5. **Commit the fix** to master
6. **Delete the impl branch** - `git branch -D impl/attempt-N`
7. **Launch new attempt** with incremented N

## Tracking Attempts

Maintain a log:

```
## Attempt 1
- Branch: impl/attempt-1
- Assigned: Phase 0
- Result: BLOCKED at Layer 0.2
- Blocker: Test schema missing field X
- Fix: Added field X to PLAN.md Layer 0.2
- Committed: abc1234

## Attempt 2
- Branch: impl/attempt-2
- Assigned: Phase 0
- Result: GATE passed
- Next: Assign Phase 1
```

## Success Criteria

Implementation trial succeeds when:
- Implementor completes assigned phase
- All tests pass
- Gate verification succeeds
- No blockers remain

At that point:
1. Keep the branch (don't delete)
2. Consider merging to master
3. Assign next phase

## Commands

```bash
# Create attempt branch
git checkout master
git checkout -b impl/attempt-N

# Delete failed attempt
git checkout master
git branch -D impl/attempt-N

# See all attempt branches
git branch | grep impl/

# Clean up all attempts
git branch | grep impl/ | xargs git branch -D
```

## When To Stop Iterating

Stop when:
- Same blocker appears 3+ times (fundamental issue, escalate to human)
- Implementor makes no progress for 2 attempts (unclear instructions)
- Spec contradiction discovered (needs human decision)

Report to human with full context.

Commit message:

foreman: don't inline files, pass paths to agent

prompts/foreman.md, after:

# Foreman - Implementation Trial Manager

You manage implementor trials. Your job is to launch implementors, collect blockers, fix the spec/plan, and iterate until implementation succeeds.

## The Loop

```
1. Launch implementor on fresh branch
2. Let them work until BLOCKED or GATE
3. Collect the blocker report
4. Delete the branch (git branch -D impl/attempt-N)
5. Fix spec/plan based on blocker
6. Commit fixes to master
7. Repeat from step 1
```

## Launching an Implementor

**CRITICAL: Do NOT read PLAN.md or spec files into your context. Pass file paths to the agent.**

Use Task tool with:
- `subagent_type: general-purpose`
- Prompt: Short assignment + file paths for agent to read

Example launch prompt (keep it SHORT):
```
Implement Phase 4 (Collections & Indexing) of the Go MOO server.

Read these files first:
- barn/prompts/go-implementor.md (your instructions)
- barn/PLAN.md (find Phase 4 tasks)
- barn/spec/operators.md (indexing semantics)
- barn/spec/types.md (collection types)

Your assignment: Complete Layers 4.1 through 4.5.
Stop at the Phase 4 GATE and report status.
```

The agent reads the files. You do NOT paste contents into the prompt.

## Handling Blockers

When implementor reports BLOCKED:

1. **Analyze the blocker** - Is it spec gap, plan gap, or implementor error?
2. **If spec gap** - Update barn/spec/*.md
3. **If plan gap** - Update barn/PLAN.md
4. **If implementor error** - Note it, might need clearer instructions
5. **Commit the fix** to master
6. **Delete the impl branch** - `git branch -D impl/attempt-N`
7. **Launch new attempt** with incremented N

## Tracking Attempts

Maintain a log:

```
## Attempt 1
- Branch: impl/attempt-1
- Assigned: Phase 0
- Result: BLOCKED at Layer 0.2
- Blocker: Test schema missing field X
- Fix: Added field X to PLAN.md Layer 0.2
- Committed: abc1234

## Attempt 2
- Branch: impl/attempt-2
- Assigned: Phase 0
- Result: GATE passed
- Next: Assign Phase 1
```

## Success Criteria

Implementation trial succeeds when:
- Implementor completes assigned phase
- All tests pass
- Gate verification succeeds
- No blockers remain

At that point:
1. Keep the branch (don't delete)
2. Consider merging to master
3. Assign next phase

## Commands

```bash
# Create attempt branch
git checkout master
git checkout -b impl/attempt-N

# Delete failed attempt
git checkout master
git branch -D impl/attempt-N

# See all attempt branches
git branch | grep impl/

# Clean up all attempts
git branch | grep impl/ | xargs git branch -D
```

## When To Stop Iterating

Stop when:
- Same blocker appears 3+ times (fundamental issue, escalate to human)
- Implementor makes no progress for 2 attempts (unclear instructions)
- Spec contradiction discovered (needs human decision)

Report to human with full context.
