spec/builtins/objects.md, before:

# MOO Object Management Built-ins

## Overview

Functions for creating, modifying, and querying objects.

---

## 1. Object Creation

### 1.1 create

**Signature:** `create(parent [, owner [, anonymous]]) → OBJ`
**Signature:** `create(parents_list [, owner [, anonymous]]) → OBJ`

**Description:** Creates a new object.

**Parameters:**
- `parent`: Single parent object, or list of parents
- `owner`: Owner of new object (default: caller)
- `anonymous`: If true, object is garbage-collected

**Behavior:**
1. **Allocate new object ID**: Sequential allocation from `max_object() + 1`. Recycled object slots are NOT automatically reused (use `recreate()` to explicitly reuse a slot).
2. Set parent(s)
3. Set owner
4. **Copy inherited properties**: All properties from the entire inheritance chain are copied. Clear properties remain clear (inherit dynamically). Non-clear properties are copied as independent values (not references).
5. **Call `initialize` verb** if defined on the new object or inherited:
   - Called with no arguments: `new_obj:initialize()`
   - Context variables: `this` = new object, `player` = creator, `caller` = creator
   - If `initialize` raises an error, object creation is NOT rolled back
   - The object exists but may be in an invalid state after error

**Examples:**
```moo
obj = create($thing);                    // Single parent
obj = create($thing, player);            // Specify owner
obj = create({$thing, $container});      // Multiple parents
anon = create($thing, $nothing, 1);      // Anonymous object
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Caller can't create children of parent
- E_INVARG: Invalid parent (recycled, not fertile)
- E_QUOTA: Object quota exceeded

---

### 1.2 recreate

**Signature:** `recreate(object, parent) → OBJ`

**Description:** Recreates a recycled object.

**Wizard only.**

**Examples:**
```moo
recreate(#100, $thing)   // Reuse object slot #100
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not a wizard
- E_INVARG: Object not recycled

---

### 1.3 recycle

**Signature:** `recycle(object) → none`

**Description:** Destroys an object.

**Behavior (in order):**
1. **Call `:recycle` verb** if defined on object or inherited (object still in pre-destruction state)
2. **Move to $nothing**: Remove from location's contents, set location to #-1
3. **Clear properties**: Remove all property values
4. **Remove verbs**: Delete all verb definitions
5. **Clear parent/children links**: Remove from parent's children list
6. **Mark slot as recycled**: Set RECYCLED (1024) and INVALID (512) flags

**Important:** The `:recycle` verb sees the object in its original state (location, properties, verbs all intact). Changes in steps 2-6 happen AFTER the recycle verb completes.

**Reference handling:** Existing references to the recycled object (in variables, properties, lists) remain as the old object ID. `valid(ref)` returns false. Any operation on the recycled object raises E_INVIND.

**Examples:**
```moo
recycle(old_object);
valid(old_object)   => 0
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not owner or wizard
- E_INVARG: Already recycled

---

## 2. Object Validation

### 2.1 valid

**Signature:** `valid(object) → BOOL`

**Description:** Tests if object exists and is not recycled.

**Behavior:**
- Returns false if object ID is negative (all sentinels: #-1, #-2, #-3, etc.)
- Returns false if object ID exceeds `max_object()`
- Returns false if object was recycled (RECYCLED flag set)
- Returns true only if object is a valid, non-recycled object

**Examples:**
```moo
valid(#0)        => true
valid(#-1)       => false (negative ID - $nothing sentinel)
valid(#-2)       => false (negative ID - $failed_match sentinel)
valid(#99999)    => false (if doesn't exist or exceeds max_object)
```

**Errors:** None (always returns boolean)

---

### 2.2 typeof

**Signature:** `typeof(value) → INT`

**Description:** Returns type code. For objects, returns TYPE_OBJ (1).

---

## 3. Inheritance

### 3.1 parent

**Signature:** `parent(object) → OBJ`

**Description:** Returns first parent of object.

**Examples:**
```moo
parent($room)     => $nothing (or root object)
parent(my_obj)    => $thing
```

**Errors:**
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 3.2 parents

**Signature:** `parents(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all direct parents.

**Examples:**
```moo
parents(obj_with_one_parent)    => {#parent}
parents(obj_with_two_parents)   => {#parent1, #parent2}
```

**Errors:**
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 3.3 children

**Signature:** `children(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of direct children.

**Examples:**
```moo
children($thing)   => {#obj1, #obj2, ...}
```

**Errors:**
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 3.4 ancestors (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `ancestors(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all ancestors (parents, grandparents, etc.).

**Order:** Breadth-first, parents before grandparents.

**Examples:**
```moo
// If obj -> $thing -> $root
ancestors(obj)   => {$thing, $root}
```

---

### 3.5 descendants (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `descendants(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all descendants (children, grandchildren, etc.).

---

### 3.6 chparent

**Signature:** `chparent(object, new_parent) → none`

**Description:** Changes object's parent (single inheritance).

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not owner/wizard
- E_INVARG: Would create cycle
- E_INVARG: New parent not fertile

---

### 3.7 chparents

**Signature:** `chparents(object, parents_list) → none`

**Description:** Changes object's parents (multiple inheritance).

**Examples:**
```moo
chparents(obj, {$thing, $container});
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not owner/wizard
- E_INVARG: Would create cycle
- E_INVARG: Parent not fertile

---

### 3.8 isa

**Signature:** `isa(object, parent) → BOOL`

**Description:** Tests if object inherits from parent (directly or indirectly).

**Examples:**
```moo
isa($room, $thing)    => true (if $room inherits from $thing)
isa(obj, obj)         => true (object is its own ancestor)
```

---

## 4. Object Properties (Built-in)

### 4.1 Flags

Object flags are accessed and modified via properties only. There are no `object_flag()` or `set_object_flag()` functions.

**Flags:**
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `.player` | Is a player (use `is_player()` to test, `set_player_flag()` to change) |
| `.programmer` | Can program |
| `.wizard` | Full access (wizard-only to set) |
| `.r` | Readable |
| `.w` | Writable |
| `.f` | Can have children |

**Examples:**
```moo
// Reading flags
if (obj.wizard) ...
if (obj.programmer) ...

// Setting flags
obj.programmer = 1;       // Requires permissions
obj.wizard = 1;           // Requires caller to be wizard
obj.f = 1;                // Make object fertile
```

**Privilege escalation prevention:**
- Setting the `wizard` property requires caller to be a wizard
- Ownership of the object is NOT sufficient
- Raises E_PERM if non-wizard attempts to set wizard property
- This prevents privilege escalation attacks

---

### 4.2 Name and Owner

```moo
obj.name              // Object name (STR)
obj.owner             // Owner object (OBJ)
```

**Changing owner (wizard only):**
```moo
obj.owner = new_owner;
```

**Note:** There is no `chown()` function. Owner is changed via property assignment.

---

## 5. Location and Contents

### 5.1 Location Properties

```moo
obj.location          // Container (OBJ)
obj.contents          // Contained objects (LIST)
```

---

### 5.2 move

**Signature:** `move(what, where) → none`

**Description:** Moves object to new location.

**Behavior:**
1. Remove from old location's contents
2. Set location to new container
3. Add to new container's contents
4. Call `exitfunc` on old location
5. Call `enterfunc` on new location

**Examples:**
```moo
move(ball, player);           // Pick up ball
move(player, $entrance);      // Teleport player
move(obj, $nothing);          // Remove from world
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: No permission
- E_RECMOVE: Moving into self/descendant
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 5.3 locations (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `locations(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns chain of containers.

**Examples:**
```moo
// If ball in box in room
locations(ball)   => {#box, #room}
```

---

### 5.4 occupants (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `occupants(locations [, fully_recursive [, include_locations [, player_only]]]) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns all objects inside locations (recursive).

**Parameters:**
- `locations`: LIST of location objects to search
- `fully_recursive`: If true, recurse into all nested containers (default: false)
- `include_locations`: If true, include the location objects themselves (default: false)
- `player_only`: If true, only return player objects (default: false)

**Examples:**
```moo
occupants({#room})              // All objects directly in room
occupants({#room}, 1)           // All objects in room and nested containers
occupants({#room1, #room2})     // All objects in multiple rooms
occupants({#room}, 1, 0, 1)     // Only players in room (recursive)
```

**Note:** There is no `contents()` function. Use `object.contents` property to get direct contents.

---

## 6. Player Management

### 6.1 is_player

**Signature:** `is_player(object) → BOOL`

**Description:** Tests if object is a player.

---

### 6.2 set_player_flag

**Signature:** `set_player_flag(object, value) → none`

**Description:** Sets/clears player status.

**Wizard only.**

---

### 6.3 players

**Signature:** `players() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all player objects.

---

### 6.4 connected_players

**Signature:** `connected_players() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of currently connected players.

---

## 7. Object Information

### 7.1 max_object

**Signature:** `max_object() → OBJ`

**Description:** Returns highest allocated object ID.

**Behavior:**
- Returns the high-water mark of object allocation
- Includes recycled objects (returns highest ID ever allocated, not highest valid)
- Example: If #1, #2, #3 exist and #2 is recycled, returns #3
- New objects created via `create()` get `max_object() + 1`

---

### 7.2 reset_max_object (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `reset_max_object() → INT`

**Description:** Reclaims recycled object slots at end of database and returns new max_object value.

**Wizard only.**

---

### 7.3 recycled_objects (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `recycled_objects() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all recycled object IDs.

**Examples:**
```moo
recycled = recycled_objects();   => {#100, #105, #112}
```

---

### 7.4 next_recycled_object (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `next_recycled_object([start]) → OBJ`

**Description:** Returns next recycled object ID after start (or first if no start).

**Examples:**
```moo
first = next_recycled_object();      => #100
next = next_recycled_object(#100);   => #105
```

---

### 7.5 owned_objects (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `owned_objects(owner) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all objects owned by owner.

**Examples:**
```moo
my_objects = owned_objects(player);
wizard_objects = owned_objects(#2);
```

---

### 7.6 locate_by_name (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `locate_by_name(name [, exact]) → OBJ`

**Description:** Searches for object by name.

**Parameters:**
- `name`: String to search for
- `exact`: If true, require exact match (default: false for substring)

**Examples:**
```moo
obj = locate_by_name("System");           // Substring search
obj = locate_by_name("System Object", 1); // Exact match
```

---

### 7.7 object_bytes

**Signature:** `object_bytes(object) → INT`

**Description:** Returns memory used by object.

---

## 8. Anonymous Objects

### 8.1 Creation

```moo
anon = create($thing, $nothing, 1);
```

### 8.2 Characteristics

- No persistent ID
- Garbage collected when unreferenced
- Cannot be stored in database
- Useful for temporary structures

**Note:** There is no `is_anonymous()` function. Check object type with `typeof(obj) == TYPE_ANON` or test if object is less than #0

---

## 9. Waif Objects

### 9.1 new_waif

**Signature:** `new_waif() → WAIF`

**Description:** Creates lightweight object.

**Properties accessed via `.:` syntax:**
```moo
w = new_waif();
w.:name = "example";
value = w.:name;
```

---

### 9.2 waif_stats (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `waif_stats() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns waif memory statistics.

---

## 10. Error Handling

| Error | Condition |
|-------|-----------|
| E_INVIND | Invalid/recycled object |
| E_PERM | Permission denied |
| E_INVARG | Invalid argument |
| E_RECMOVE | Recursive move |
| E_QUOTA | Quota exceeded |

---

## Go Implementation Notes

```go
type Object struct {
    ID        int64
    Name      string
    Owner     int64
    Parents   []int64
    Children  []int64
    Location  int64
    Contents  []int64
    Flags     ObjectFlags
    Props     map[string]*Property
    Verbs     map[string]*Verb
    Recycled  bool
    Anonymous bool
}

func builtinCreate(args []Value) (Value, error) {
    parent, ok := args[0].(ObjValue)
    if !ok {
        // Check for list of parents
        parents, ok := args[0].(*MOOList)
        if !ok {
            return nil, E_TYPE
        }
        // Multiple inheritance path
        return createWithParents(parents, args[1:])
    }

    // Single parent path
    parentObj := db.GetObject(int64(parent))
    if parentObj == nil || parentObj.Recycled {
        return nil, E_INVARG
    }
    if !parentObj.Flags.Has(FLAG_FERTILE) && !callerIsWizard() {
        return nil, E_PERM
    }

    newObj := &Object{
        ID:      db.NextObjectID(),
        Parents: []int64{int64(parent)},
        Owner:   callerPerms(),
    }

    // Inherit properties
    for name, prop := range parentObj.Props {
        newObj.Props[name] = prop.Copy()
    }

    db.AddObject(newObj)

    // Call initialize if exists
    if initVerb := db.FindVerb(newObj.ID, "initialize"); initVerb != nil {
        vm.CallVerb(newObj.ID, "initialize", nil)
    }

    return ObjValue(newObj.ID), nil
}

func builtinMove(args []Value) (Value, error) {
    what := int64(args[0].(ObjValue))
    where := int64(args[1].(ObjValue))

    // Check for recursive move
    if isDescendant(where, what) {
        return nil, E_RECMOVE
    }

    whatObj := db.GetObject(what)
    oldLoc := whatObj.Location

    // Remove from old location
    if oldLoc != NOTHING {
        oldLocObj := db.GetObject(oldLoc)
        oldLocObj.Contents = removeFrom(oldLocObj.Contents, what)
    }

    // Add to new location
    whatObj.Location = where
    if where != NOTHING {
        whereObj := db.GetObject(where)
        whereObj.Contents = append(whereObj.Contents, what)
    }

    // Call hooks
    if oldLoc != NOTHING {
        callVerbIfExists(oldLoc, "exitfunc", what)
    }
    if where != NOTHING {
        callVerbIfExists(where, "enterfunc", what)
    }

    return nil, nil
}
```

Commit message:

Correct builtin specs to match ToastStunt behavior
- lists: length() accepts strings/maps, sort() key semantics, slice()
  operates on list elements, reverse() accepts strings
- math: add simplex_noise()
- objects: occupants() is a filter-by-ancestry function, not recursive
  container search; locate_by_name() threading note
- strings: explode() adjacent_delim parameter, chr() is byte-based
  not Unicode, encode/decode_binary recursive lists, base64 url_safe
  flag, add parse_ansi/remove_ansi
- tasks: callers() defaults to 5-element frames, set_thread_mode()
  semantics, add threads/thread_pool/background_test
- verbs: add verb_cache_stats/log_cache_stats

spec/builtins/objects.md, after:

# MOO Object Management Built-ins

## Overview

Functions for creating, modifying, and querying objects.

---

## 1. Object Creation

### 1.1 create

**Signature:** `create(parent [, owner [, anonymous]]) → OBJ`
**Signature:** `create(parents_list [, owner [, anonymous]]) → OBJ`

**Description:** Creates a new object.

**Parameters:**
- `parent`: Single parent object, or list of parents
- `owner`: Owner of new object (default: caller)
- `anonymous`: If true, object is garbage-collected

**Behavior:**
1. **Allocate new object ID**: Sequential allocation from `max_object() + 1`. Recycled object slots are NOT automatically reused (use `recreate()` to explicitly reuse a slot).
2. Set parent(s)
3. Set owner
4. **Copy inherited properties**: All properties from the entire inheritance chain are copied. Clear properties remain clear (inherit dynamically). Non-clear properties are copied as independent values (not references).
5. **Call `initialize` verb** if defined on the new object or inherited:
   - Called with no arguments: `new_obj:initialize()`
   - Context variables: `this` = new object, `player` = creator, `caller` = creator
   - If `initialize` raises an error, object creation is NOT rolled back
   - The object exists but may be in an invalid state after error

**Examples:**
```moo
obj = create($thing);                    // Single parent
obj = create($thing, player);            // Specify owner
obj = create({$thing, $container});      // Multiple parents
anon = create($thing, $nothing, 1);      // Anonymous object
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Caller can't create children of parent
- E_INVARG: Invalid parent (recycled, not fertile)
- E_QUOTA: Object quota exceeded

---

### 1.2 recreate

**Signature:** `recreate(object, parent) → OBJ`

**Description:** Recreates a recycled object.

**Wizard only.**

**Examples:**
```moo
recreate(#100, $thing)   // Reuse object slot #100
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not a wizard
- E_INVARG: Object not recycled

---

### 1.3 recycle

**Signature:** `recycle(object) → none`

**Description:** Destroys an object.

**Behavior (in order):**
1. **Call `:recycle` verb** if defined on object or inherited (object still in pre-destruction state)
2. **Move to $nothing**: Remove from location's contents, set location to #-1
3. **Clear properties**: Remove all property values
4. **Remove verbs**: Delete all verb definitions
5. **Clear parent/children links**: Remove from parent's children list
6. **Mark slot as recycled**: Set RECYCLED (1024) and INVALID (512) flags

**Important:** The `:recycle` verb sees the object in its original state (location, properties, verbs all intact). Changes in steps 2-6 happen AFTER the recycle verb completes.

**Reference handling:** Existing references to the recycled object (in variables, properties, lists) remain as the old object ID. `valid(ref)` returns false. Any operation on the recycled object raises E_INVIND.

**Examples:**
```moo
recycle(old_object);
valid(old_object)   => 0
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not owner or wizard
- E_INVARG: Already recycled

---

## 2. Object Validation

### 2.1 valid

**Signature:** `valid(object) → BOOL`

**Description:** Tests if object exists and is not recycled.

**Behavior:**
- Returns false if object ID is negative (all sentinels: #-1, #-2, #-3, etc.)
- Returns false if object ID exceeds `max_object()`
- Returns false if object was recycled (RECYCLED flag set)
- Returns true only if object is a valid, non-recycled object

**Examples:**
```moo
valid(#0)        => true
valid(#-1)       => false (negative ID - $nothing sentinel)
valid(#-2)       => false (negative ID - $failed_match sentinel)
valid(#99999)    => false (if doesn't exist or exceeds max_object)
```

**Errors:** None (always returns boolean)

---

### 2.2 typeof

**Signature:** `typeof(value) → INT`

**Description:** Returns type code. For objects, returns TYPE_OBJ (1).

---

## 3. Inheritance

### 3.1 parent

**Signature:** `parent(object) → OBJ`

**Description:** Returns first parent of object.

**Examples:**
```moo
parent($room)     => $nothing (or root object)
parent(my_obj)    => $thing
```

**Errors:**
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 3.2 parents

**Signature:** `parents(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all direct parents.

**Examples:**
```moo
parents(obj_with_one_parent)    => {#parent}
parents(obj_with_two_parents)   => {#parent1, #parent2}
```

**Errors:**
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 3.3 children

**Signature:** `children(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of direct children.

**Examples:**
```moo
children($thing)   => {#obj1, #obj2, ...}
```

**Errors:**
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 3.4 ancestors (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `ancestors(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all ancestors (parents, grandparents, etc.).

**Order:** Breadth-first, parents before grandparents.

**Examples:**
```moo
// If obj -> $thing -> $root
ancestors(obj)   => {$thing, $root}
```

---

### 3.5 descendants (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `descendants(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all descendants (children, grandchildren, etc.).

---

### 3.6 chparent

**Signature:** `chparent(object, new_parent) → none`

**Description:** Changes object's parent (single inheritance).

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not owner/wizard
- E_INVARG: Would create cycle
- E_INVARG: New parent not fertile

---

### 3.7 chparents

**Signature:** `chparents(object, parents_list) → none`

**Description:** Changes object's parents (multiple inheritance).

**Examples:**
```moo
chparents(obj, {$thing, $container});
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: Not owner/wizard
- E_INVARG: Would create cycle
- E_INVARG: Parent not fertile

---

### 3.8 isa

**Signature:** `isa(object, parent) → BOOL`

**Description:** Tests if object inherits from parent (directly or indirectly).

**Examples:**
```moo
isa($room, $thing)    => true (if $room inherits from $thing)
isa(obj, obj)         => true (object is its own ancestor)
```

---

## 4. Object Properties (Built-in)

### 4.1 Flags

Object flags are accessed and modified via properties only. There are no `object_flag()` or `set_object_flag()` functions.

**Flags:**
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `.player` | Is a player (use `is_player()` to test, `set_player_flag()` to change) |
| `.programmer` | Can program |
| `.wizard` | Full access (wizard-only to set) |
| `.r` | Readable |
| `.w` | Writable |
| `.f` | Can have children |

**Examples:**
```moo
// Reading flags
if (obj.wizard) ...
if (obj.programmer) ...

// Setting flags
obj.programmer = 1;       // Requires permissions
obj.wizard = 1;           // Requires caller to be wizard
obj.f = 1;                // Make object fertile
```

**Privilege escalation prevention:**
- Setting the `wizard` property requires caller to be a wizard
- Ownership of the object is NOT sufficient
- Raises E_PERM if non-wizard attempts to set wizard property
- This prevents privilege escalation attacks

---

### 4.2 Name and Owner

```moo
obj.name              // Object name (STR)
obj.owner             // Owner object (OBJ)
```

**Changing owner (wizard only):**
```moo
obj.owner = new_owner;
```

**Note:** There is no `chown()` function. Owner is changed via property assignment.

---

## 5. Location and Contents

### 5.1 Location Properties

```moo
obj.location          // Container (OBJ)
obj.contents          // Contained objects (LIST)
```

---

### 5.2 move

**Signature:** `move(what, where) → none`

**Description:** Moves object to new location.

**Behavior:**
1. Remove from old location's contents
2. Set location to new container
3. Add to new container's contents
4. Call `exitfunc` on old location
5. Call `enterfunc` on new location

**Examples:**
```moo
move(ball, player);           // Pick up ball
move(player, $entrance);      // Teleport player
move(obj, $nothing);          // Remove from world
```

**Errors:**
- E_PERM: No permission
- E_RECMOVE: Moving into self/descendant
- E_INVIND: Invalid object

---

### 5.3 locations (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `locations(object) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns chain of containers.

**Examples:**
```moo
// If ball in box in room
locations(ball)   => {#box, #room}
```

---

### 5.4 occupants (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `occupants(objects [, parent [, player_flag [, inverse]]]) → LIST`

**Description:** Filters a list of objects by parent inheritance and optionally player flag.

**Parameters:**
- `objects`: LIST of objects to filter (must all be valid objects)
- `parent`: OBJ or LIST of OBJs - filter to objects that `isa()` one of these parents
- `player_flag`: INT - if true, only return objects with the player flag set
- `inverse`: INT - if true, invert the parent check (return objects NOT descended from parent)

**Behavior by argument count:**
- 1 arg: returns all valid objects from the list (player flag check enabled)
- 2 args: filters by parent (isa check), player flag check enabled
- 3 args: filters by parent, uses explicit player_flag setting
- 4 args: filters by parent with optional inverse, uses explicit player_flag

**Examples:**
```moo
occupants(connected_players())           // All connected players
occupants(connected_players(), $prog)    // Connected players descended from $prog
occupants({#10, #20, #30}, $thing)       // Objects in list descended from $thing
occupants({#10, #20}, $thing, 0)         // Descended from $thing, any player flag
occupants({#10, #20}, $thing, 0, 1)      // NOT descended from $thing
```

**Returns:** E_TYPE if first arg not a list, or parent arg wrong type. E_INVARG if list contains non-objects or invalid objects.

**Notes:**
- Uses the background thread system when threading is enabled and may suspend.
- There is no `contents()` function. Use `object.contents` property to get direct contents.

---

## 6. Player Management

### 6.1 is_player

**Signature:** `is_player(object) → BOOL`

**Description:** Tests if object is a player.

---

### 6.2 set_player_flag

**Signature:** `set_player_flag(object, value) → none`

**Description:** Sets/clears player status.

**Wizard only.**

---

### 6.3 players

**Signature:** `players() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all player objects.

---

### 6.4 connected_players

**Signature:** `connected_players() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of currently connected players.

---

## 7. Object Information

### 7.1 max_object

**Signature:** `max_object() → OBJ`

**Description:** Returns highest allocated object ID.

**Behavior:**
- Returns the high-water mark of object allocation
- Includes recycled objects (returns highest ID ever allocated, not highest valid)
- Example: If #1, #2, #3 exist and #2 is recycled, returns #3
- New objects created via `create()` get `max_object() + 1`

---

### 7.2 reset_max_object (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `reset_max_object() → INT`

**Description:** Reclaims recycled object slots at end of database and returns new max_object value.

**Wizard only.**

---

### 7.3 recycled_objects (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `recycled_objects() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all recycled object IDs.

**Examples:**
```moo
recycled = recycled_objects();   => {#100, #105, #112}
```

---

### 7.4 next_recycled_object (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `next_recycled_object([start]) → OBJ`

**Description:** Returns next recycled object ID after start (or first if no start).

**Examples:**
```moo
first = next_recycled_object();      => #100
next = next_recycled_object(#100);   => #105
```

---

### 7.5 owned_objects (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `owned_objects(owner) → LIST`

**Description:** Returns list of all objects owned by owner.

**Examples:**
```moo
my_objects = owned_objects(player);
wizard_objects = owned_objects(#2);
```

---

### 7.6 locate_by_name (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `locate_by_name(name [, exact]) → OBJ`

**Description:** Searches for object by name.

**Parameters:**
- `name`: String to search for
- `exact`: If true, require exact match (default: false for substring)

**Examples:**
```moo
obj = locate_by_name("System");           // Substring search
obj = locate_by_name("System Object", 1); // Exact match
```

**Note:** Uses the background thread system when threading is enabled and may suspend.

---

### 7.7 object_bytes

**Signature:** `object_bytes(object) → INT`

**Description:** Returns memory used by object.

---

## 8. Anonymous Objects

### 8.1 Creation

```moo
anon = create($thing, $nothing, 1);
```

### 8.2 Characteristics

- No persistent ID
- Garbage collected when unreferenced
- Cannot be stored in database
- Useful for temporary structures

**Note:** There is no `is_anonymous()` function. Check object type with `typeof(obj) == TYPE_ANON` or test if object is less than #0

---

## 9. Waif Objects

### 9.1 new_waif

**Signature:** `new_waif() → WAIF`

**Description:** Creates lightweight object.

**Properties accessed via `.:` syntax:**
```moo
w = new_waif();
w.:name = "example";
value = w.:name;
```

---

### 9.2 waif_stats (ToastStunt)

**Signature:** `waif_stats() → LIST`

**Description:** Returns waif memory statistics.

---

## 10. Error Handling

| Error | Condition |
|-------|-----------|
| E_INVIND | Invalid/recycled object |
| E_PERM | Permission denied |
| E_INVARG | Invalid argument |
| E_RECMOVE | Recursive move |
| E_QUOTA | Quota exceeded |

---

## Go Implementation Notes

```go
type Object struct {
    ID        int64
    Name      string
    Owner     int64
    Parents   []int64
    Children  []int64
    Location  int64
    Contents  []int64
    Flags     ObjectFlags
    Props     map[string]*Property
    Verbs     map[string]*Verb
    Recycled  bool
    Anonymous bool
}

func builtinCreate(args []Value) (Value, error) {
    parent, ok := args[0].(ObjValue)
    if !ok {
        // Check for list of parents
        parents, ok := args[0].(*MOOList)
        if !ok {
            return nil, E_TYPE
        }
        // Multiple inheritance path
        return createWithParents(parents, args[1:])
    }

    // Single parent path
    parentObj := db.GetObject(int64(parent))
    if parentObj == nil || parentObj.Recycled {
        return nil, E_INVARG
    }
    if !parentObj.Flags.Has(FLAG_FERTILE) && !callerIsWizard() {
        return nil, E_PERM
    }

    newObj := &Object{
        ID:      db.NextObjectID(),
        Parents: []int64{int64(parent)},
        Owner:   callerPerms(),
    }

    // Inherit properties
    for name, prop := range parentObj.Props {
        newObj.Props[name] = prop.Copy()
    }

    db.AddObject(newObj)

    // Call initialize if exists
    if initVerb := db.FindVerb(newObj.ID, "initialize"); initVerb != nil {
        vm.CallVerb(newObj.ID, "initialize", nil)
    }

    return ObjValue(newObj.ID), nil
}

func builtinMove(args []Value) (Value, error) {
    what := int64(args[0].(ObjValue))
    where := int64(args[1].(ObjValue))

    // Check for recursive move
    if isDescendant(where, what) {
        return nil, E_RECMOVE
    }

    whatObj := db.GetObject(what)
    oldLoc := whatObj.Location

    // Remove from old location
    if oldLoc != NOTHING {
        oldLocObj := db.GetObject(oldLoc)
        oldLocObj.Contents = removeFrom(oldLocObj.Contents, what)
    }

    // Add to new location
    whatObj.Location = where
    if where != NOTHING {
        whereObj := db.GetObject(where)
        whereObj.Contents = append(whereObj.Contents, what)
    }

    // Call hooks
    if oldLoc != NOTHING {
        callVerbIfExists(oldLoc, "exitfunc", what)
    }
    if where != NOTHING {
        callVerbIfExists(where, "enterfunc", what)
    }

    return nil, nil
}
```
